this is sour check videos
hi today on soundcheck video we're
checking out the cave and guard the cave
and gar was made from 1961 to 1964 they
sold them under lots of different names
this is an old craftsman they also sold
them under airline silvertone and a
couple other companies they're great
little guitar they're easy to carry
they're easy to play
hey catalog shows these guitars selling
for $60 for the single pickup or $85 for
the double pickup comes with the
standard tone control and volume control
for each pickup and then a 3-way switch
so you can play them individually or at
the same time something's kind of cool
about this guitar is that it has a
twenty five and three-quarter inch scale
which is pretty long especially for a
small guitar it's a solid body and it
has maple veneer on the top and on the
back these pit guards are kind of cheesy
and if you find one of these guitars and
the pick card is cracked or damaged
really bad that's gonna be a big part of
the price of that guitar they sell for
about thirty-five bucks just for the
pickguard so I picked up this guitar for
sixty-five dollars the pickups and the
switches and stuff were all apart and I
had to resolder it together but for 65
bucks I ended up with a great guitar and
I see him selling for about 250 or 350
even on eBay now so these are definitely
some of the guitars that have been going
up in price here in the past six months
kay is an interesting company they made
massive amounts of instruments and
they're actually credited for making the
first production electric guitar it was
called the Stromberg electro and if you
look that up on the internet there's a
really cool article by vintage guitar
magazine so check that out
the Vanguard is a really cool guitar
they're easy as heck to play they're
super light so they're easy to carry
around and this is your it sounds like
you
definitely has advantage so we can hear
how it sounds with some Distortion
all right so that's the cave and guard
we're in this case the old craftsman
Vanguard it's a great little guitar I
would suggest it to anybody that just
wants a good player and doesn't want to
spend too much on vintage guitar so
that's it from sound check videos and
have a wonderful day
you